[title]: # (Authentication: General)
[tags]: # (DevOps Secrets Vault,DSV,)
[priority]: # (1400)

# Authentication: General

As noted in [Setup DevOps Secrets Vault](../setup/index.md), DSV supports several authentication methods, potentially easing cloud deployments by tapping in-place authentication providers such as AWS and Azure.

## Password

Password authentication relies directly on individual User accounts. It requires an initial admin account with username + password authentication.

DSV encrypts the password in the config on successful authentication. This prevents Users from accidentally disclosing the password by sending the config to someone or by giving access to the computer to another person.

Routine activities associated with this authentication method include:

* creating a new User

* entering the username and password of the new User

* adding the new User to the DSV config

See the [Users](../cli-ref/user.md) portion of the CLI Reference for details.

## Client Credentials

In this method, you authenticate via a client id and a Secret generated by the vault. This suits situations requiring application or server access when no third party trust is feasible.

Client credentials tie to Roles, not User accounts, the significance being that Roles have a one-to-many relationship with User accounts. Using Roles-based authentication allows you to efficiently apply uniform authentication requirements to collections of Users.

Routine activities associated with the client credentials authentication method include:

* creating a new Role

* adding the new Role to the DSV config

* creating new client credentials using the new Role

* invoking the *init* command and supplying those client credentials

See the [Roles](../cli-ref/role.md) portion of the CLI Reference for more information.

## Third Party Authentication

DevOps Secrets Vault works with third party authentication providers, including:

**AWS IAM**: DSV uses the current AWS profile to generate a signed request which the vault validates against AWS. You can use this with EC2 instances and with a Lambda that is assigned an IAM Role or an IAM User account.

**Azure MSI**: DSV uses the assigned Azure Managed Service Identity (MSI).

*Google Cloud Platform*: DSV does not yet accept authentication provided by the Google Cloud Platform, but Thycotic expects to include support for this in an upcoming DSV release.

Note that these authentication types, which are oriented to User accounts, should not be confused with the REST API authentication that powers DSV itself. DSV’s RESTful architecture allows it to interact with the vault API over HTTP; to authenticate for these interactions, DSV uses an authorization token obtained by a call to the API. Scripts and applications that will include direct REST calls can similarly obtain a token for use with the calls using the CLI *auth* command.

Authentication through Azure or AWS requires additional setup steps so that DSV has information about trusted Accounts, Users, and Roles and the permission policies applicable to each. The [Authentication: Azure or AWS](../authent-azure-aws/index.md) section covers this in detail.



  
