[title]: # (Authentication: General)
[tags]: # (,)
[priority]: # (8000)

# Authentication: General

As noted in **Configure DSV: Advanced**, DSV supports several authentication methods, potentially easing cloud deployments by tapping in-place authentication providers such as AWS and Azure.

## Types of Authentication

DSV works with several types of authentication.

* **Password**: Simple username / password authentication; most appropriate for human users. An initial admin with username / password authentication is required. Please note that the password is encrypted in the config upon successful authentication. This prevents users from accidentally disclosing the actual password by sending the config to someone or by giving access to the computer to another person.

* **Client Credentials**: Authenticate via a client id and secret generated by the vault. For application or server access when no third party trust is feasible.

* **Third Party Authentication**, including:

    * **AWS IAM**: Uses the current AWS profile to generate a signed request     which vault validates against AWS. Can be used with EC2 instances and     Lambda's assigned an IAM role or an IAM user account.

    * **Azure MSI**: Uses the assigned Azure managed service identity (MSI)

    * *Google Cloud Platform*: DSV does **not yet** accept authentication     provided by the Google Cloud Platform, but this will be coming soon.

Note: These types of user account-oriented authentication should not be confused with the **REST API Authentication** that powers DSV itself. DSV relies on the REST protocol to interact with the vault API over HTTP; to authenticate for these interactions, DSV uses an “authorization token” obtained by a call to the API.

Scripts and applications that will include direct REST calls can similarly obtain a token for use with the calls using the CLI \`auth\` command.

### Password

Password authentication relies directly on individual user accounts. Routine activities associated with this authentication method include:

* create a new user

* invoke the init command and entering the username and password of the new user

* add the new user to the DSV config

### Client Credentials

Client credentials tie to roles, not user accounts, the significance being that roles have a one-to-many relationship with user accounts. Using roles-based authentication allows you to efficiently apply uniform authentication requirements to collections of users.

Routine activities associated with this authentication method include:

* create a new role

* add the new role to the DSV config

* create new client credentials using the new role

* invoking the init command and supplying those client credentials

### Third Party Authentication

For Azure and AWS authentication there are some additional steps so DSV knows which accounts, users, and roles are trusted and what their permissions are.

